My Observations:
1. The code that is reading and parses the CSV file is directly in the main() function. This makes the code harder to support other formats like JSON. If they added a function in to switch the parsing that it would be better. 
2. The category mapping is also directly in the main() function, and it's in there as a dictionary. This makes it so any changes to categories have to be done with the actual code, instead of updating a file, which would make the program so much more flexible. 
3. This code mixes reading and computing tables, and printing results all in one singular place. This makes it very hard when you're trying to test only the logic of the code. 

Part 4 Questions:
1. Before completing the lab I said that CSV was directly in the main(), the categories were hard coded in main() too, and the fact that the code mixes up reading, printing, and computing. After the lab I would have to say that I was right about these three parts, because everything I said is exactly what made the lab hard. But something that surprised me was how clean I was able to make the code look after going back and refactoring the whole code. 
2. For Part 1, I used separation from logic, by moving CSV and JSON parsing into their own parse_csv and parse_json. In part 2 I was able to use dependency injection with categorize() since it takes the categories and uses them as an input instead of using a hard coded dictionary. Finally in part 3 I used single responsibility, because build_report() is only able to handle the calculations, and it doesn't actually print or read any files. 
3. The hardest change during this lab for me was probably part 3. I say this because the original code I started with mixed up printing and the calculations together. Those 2 being put together made this part pretty hard to work out. My first attempt I tried to still include printing inside the build_report() but when I did that the test still failed, since it needs to be based off of pure logic only. So because of all that, I had to actually removes all the printing, and instead make the code only return the data. 
4. If this program had to putt transactions from a remote API, first I would start by adding a function like the fetch_transactions(). This will be helpful because it till get the actual data from the internet. After the fetch gets the data from the internet, I would then have it pass the data into parse_json() so that the rest of the program is able to stay the same. So since parsing and reporting are already separated, I would not have to change the build_report() or any of the rest of the logic since the program is able to stay the same. 